Hey everyone Dan here, welcome to this week's episode of fish before we get going
I just want to let you know about today's guest joining us this week
We were so excited to be joined by someone who is genuinely
British nerd royalty it is of course the lexicographer the star of dictionary corner from countdown and
Eight out of ten cats does countdown and that is Susie Dent now Susie Dent is someone that we you know
We basically monitor her Twitter account on a 24-hour basis
She's just always pumping out incredible words with these definitions and you've never heard them before and we've never met her before
So this was such an exciting moment for us not only to be able to meet her in person have a nice chat
But also to sit down with her on stage in front of a crowd and dork out with her
So yeah, I really hope you enjoy the episode. We absolutely loved it and outside of that
I just want to quickly mention that you need to get your hands on Susie's two new upcoming books
The first one comes out September 28th, and that one is called interesting stories about curious words
So it's sort of all those phrases that we know stealing thunder red herrings
But what do they actually mean so this book is going to be looking into all those phrases and terms on your behalf
So that you now know who was sweet fanny Adams or why are circles vicious all those questions that you might have had
She's put it into an ultimate compendium to explain it all so that's out September 28th
But then on the 5th of October
She also has a book coming out called roots of happiness a hundred words for joy and hope and that is a book for kids
Basically Susie had the idea when looking through a dictionary that there's far too many negative words in there
And that we should be highlighting the more happy ones the more uplifting ones
So reading directly from a blurb here
It's gonna lift you out of your mobile fubbles, which is a slightly sad mood
Make you grin like a giggle mug, which is someone who never stopped smiling and have you feeling for blissed?
Extremely happy so do pick up both those books
But until then enjoy Susie here live at the soho theater with no such thing as a fish on with the show
Hello and welcome to another episode of no such thing as a fish a weekly podcast this week coming to you live from the
My name is Dan Shriver
I'm sitting here with James Harkin Andrew Hunter Murray and Susie dance and once again
We have gathered around our microphones with our four favorite facts from the last seven days and in a particular order here
We go starting with fact number one and that is Susie, okay?
Samuel Johnson in his fiction with the English language from 1755
Decided that he would not include any words beginning with the letter X because he said thus begins no word in the English language
That's my fact and is that true were we xylophone lists at this point
Yes, I was a century later, but also he was quite picky, you know how lexicographies today
We are really careful about not giving any opinion whatsoever
Even with words like Trump arenas, which are my favorite meaning something completely showy, but utterly worthless. We're not allowed to say
Anything but he was notoriously rude to the Scots, you know about Americans
So I think he probably didn't have much truck with anything from Greek
We did have x words at the time we had a few x words
But a lot of them came later lovely words often great like Xenium which is a gift to strangers
Which I think is really nice
But what was lovely is that it came from the Phoenicians and they had a letter
Samek which get actually gave the letter s we think but that meant fish, so you could say there's no such thing as an X
That's a title of the episode
Quick as we've ever got our title
Did they have xenophobe in those days they have a xenophobe xenophobia?
I think it most phobias are based on Greek
But we kind of made them up a little bit later, but we based them on classical things like cool
Raphobia fear of clowns, which I have they didn't have clowns in ancient Greece, so they chose the word for stilt walker
Yeah, it's quite cool. What's your and are you also afraid of them because it of the sort of knock-on. It's still well
No, I like stills. Yeah
But yeah clowns definitely not really know if you've seen the new is it the Smiler the horror no, okay, don't
The reason I ask about xenophobia is because Johnson as you say probably didn't like the Scots very much
No, do not Americans. Yeah like the French for sure
He predicted that he'd write the dictionary in three years
And then when someone pointed out that had taken the French 40 years to write their own dictionary
He said well, this is proportion 40 times 40 is 1600 as three to 1600
So is the proportion of an Englishman to a Frenchman. Yeah, right? Yeah. Wow
So 42,000 words made it into this first dictionary that he did right 42,000 definitions and
He had self deprecating jokes that he kind of included in there, which is quite fun
So yeah, the word for dull the description for the word dull
He explained to make dictionaries is dull work as part of his description and then also the definition of lexicographer
He wrote a writer of dictionaries a harmless drudge. Yeah
Look, you know it by heart. Yeah
And also he was quite he would never admit that he didn't know a word
Which was quite funny. So all the all the origin of a word. So
Spider I loved he couldn't quite get to the root of spider. So he just said is this not the insect that spies from a door
It's not an insect mate
Like the any old bollocks era of of study just feels like such a great time to be alive
You would have absolutely I would have been
I would have been king back then. Yeah, yeah, that is true
He was one of the last people in England to be touched for scruff. Oh, yeah, so cool
So if you have a horrible word scruff you know scruff you know, yeah
And it is just a skin condition and the monarch would touch people and and effectively cure them
ineffectively cure them of scruff you know and
Sammy Johnson's parents took him to London from his hometown when he was three years old
You know your local parish would maybe club together raise the money
They'd send you off and the Queen the monarch would touch you big big cues as well, right? Yeah
The second I think we might have mentioned this before he touched something like two percent of the population of England Wow Wow
Yeah
Steppy it was a different time
And and like and Johnson had it he had a gold coin
It's a Queen Anne. Yeah, touch piece which is the sort of yeah
It didn't work though. And actually he's quite disfigured his face through scruff you know, which is sad
Yeah, and well, there's some really weird but lovely etymologies in there
So tarantula was an insect insect. He does they call it an insect again
Whose bike can only be cured by music because it was thought it could be cured by the tarantella at the dark Wow
Was that proper doctors advice at the time really? Wow? Is there a doctor in the house dr. Johnson? Yes
Get a hurdy-gurdy to this woman now
And then he had retro mingency, which means pissing backwards. That's how we define it
When you say pissing backwards, you don't mean sucking it up into your body
Oh, I think I think it's like some animals their penis points backwards, right?
I think and so a retro mingent mammal
On the back of its feet
Right, I think this is bit like Roy Keane saying shove it up your bollocks
It does feel sometimes when you need to pee and you don't want to that the hold has a suck action to it as well
Am I alone here in that I rather think you might be alone. No, no, but properly think about it
You're kind of like I really need to pee and you're going you're doing you are I am I am
Word for that as well if you are holding on so tight is piss you pressed and what does that mean?
Desperate to use the forces mostly. So it's kind of desperate to pee but holding it in piss you crest piss you press
It's like piss suppressed
Don't do it then cuz Tika Brie. He supposedly died from doing that. Didn't he?
Yeah famous astronomer and he was at a dinner and he was too polite. Yeah, and his bladder exploded. Oh
So don't do that then well he I imagine Johnson would have had to pee a lot because supposedly he could drink in one sitting
25 cups of tea in one go. No, he loved his tea
He loved his food Boswell wrote about this Boswell would say that to watch him eat was like watching the most intense thing ever
He would not have any conversation. He was just rampaging through his food. The veins on his head were like pulsating
He was just a man obsessed with needing to get the and he did that with reading as well
He would you would just have to read really hard and and 25 cups of tea is what I read as well
Wow, that's amazing. He lived at the same time as Francis Gross. He really was gross by figure
Yeah, right so Johnson always chose the classical references for his dictionary and he was quite a purist originally anyway
And then Francis gross went to the brothels and the taverns and picked up all the street slang and I don't know if they ever met
But they would have had a good dinner party
They would have known about each other
I think they would yeah, so while he's sort of harmlessly dredging away. He's thinking of this other guy. He's going
Yeah, must have been terrible. Yeah, I like some of his definitions
So the word etch is a country word of which I know not the meaning
The word defluxion the definition is a defluxion
That's a real Friday afternoon
I gotta go to the brothel. I just put any answer 25 cups of tea waiting just across the room
That's great a sock something put between the foot and the shoe
Lunch this is good lunch as much food as one's hand can hold
There is a word for that a galpin and a yep since a galpin is as much as you can hold in a single hand
Which and I think yep, it's two hands the biscuits good for biscuit measurements. I think that's brilliant
I've got a couple of x-word things. Oh, yeah. Yeah, so
The word x-ray, you know what the x and x-ray stands for
Unknown just X. He didn't know what it was. I'm just gonna put X here for now and when they work out what it is
We can change and it just hasn't been changed. Maybe called Runken rays. That would be a nightmare. Is that who?
Runken he was cool from Germany. He's nice. Yeah, who can raise can do is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah
Maybe you know this one the X-Men why they called the X-Men. Oh, and no idea. Is it because they spend all the time on Twitter?
Yeah, well, I thought it was because Professor X Professor Xavier. Oh, yeah, that's not exciting. Yeah, but no
It's um, it's extra power which was said in a comic book. Oh, really? Yeah
and just while we're if you insist we continue on X-Men
Just discovered an amazing character from X-Men. I've never heard of before
So did you know that there's a character in X-Men called forget me not?
No, okay. No, you don't because they don't either because if if he is out of your sight
No one can remember him. Oh, so the first time we meet him is someone from X-Men going. Hey, how you doing?
He's like I've been here six years and
No one can remember this guy. It's and it's that's a great superpower. Not if you want to be part of the team. Yeah, but
For robbing a bank. Yeah, go in you rob a bank you leave. That's true. They just carry on with their day
I think that's a really good super. I think the superheroes generally aren't robbing the banks
But Professor X the only reason he knew he existed because he said like a alarm on his iPhone or whatever to remind him every so often
Like forget me. You're not so character in in our comic book. Oh, okay. Cool. So that's the professor X isn't aware that it's a comic book
That he's taking I was I was just yeah, I was leaving the foot of broke the fourth wall there
Anyway, I don't know. All right. Thanks for letting me get that out. I've got another X for you
Oh, yeah
X when you watch things like it not the normal speed like one times two times one yeah, yeah
Okay, does it just a quick show of like whoops who here regularly watches things sped up?
Who regularly listens to podcast sped up?
I know our voices are probably like, why are they talking so slow on stage. Hello. I'm welcome to another episode. Yeah, it's a listen to our podcast sped up
Slow down
Do you follow an etiquette for your exes or messages because I was having this conversation with brilliant Greg Jenna and his story
Oh, yeah, and so he said X
It's only just being kind of okay when the last ten years
Yeah, on a platonic text, you know between friends X is more romantic
Yeah, and he would never put three X's and he and I said why I put three X's on my best friend all the time
He looked up on his phone all porn. I didn't realize
Did you realize that three X's
Greg's phone
Love right? Yeah, he thinks about the interesting thing about that is the first use we have of adding X for kisses or a greeting like that
Is from 1763 and they did seven X's
Wow, that's a lot isn't it to just go straight in with seven. Whoa. Yeah, that's intense
According to the only the Christian X. Well, yeah, they think that it was like a blessing great
Yeah, it was like the cross. Yeah, but yeah, I heard well
This is in relation to X rated that it was based on the skull and crossbones. Maybe. Oh, really? Yeah
I was exclusively films which featured pirate activity
Yeah, do you know why blue joke is called blue? Sorry. Do you know why blue joke is blue? No, no
because sensors used to have a blue pencil and also
Sex workers in prison had to wear blue gowns. Oh, really?
That's great gowns blue gowns. Yeah. Oh wait, sorry. Are they the prisoners in this in prison? Sorry. I thought they were like visiting
Uniforms
Imagine you've got to visit your friend lights. Sorry, we've run out of the white for visitors. Do you mind wearing blue Andy while you?
What a visit I've had
Good Lord
He's lost the cocaine
It is time for fact number two and that is James
Okay, my fact this week is that in
1986 a group of maths teachers organized a protest in Washington, DC
Against the use of calculators in schools their protests failed because they couldn't get the numbers
That felt a bit ironic at that moment you became a dad
Yeah, maybe time from numbers round
Connection since 1986 I bet no I bet no one even did at the time as well
I think well, it was a man wasn't it a maths
It was a gathering of six thousand maths teachers that they were at yeah
Yeah, it wasn't a massive story in the newspapers
I must admit but it was in the newspapers and like you say it was the National Council of Teachers of
Mathematics, so they were all math teachers was six thousand of them there and there are about 15 of them
We think who had placards and songs and they were protesting against calc you holics
Because they thought that these kids because they were using calculators. They won't be able to do normal maths
They would just kind of rely on them and they won't be able to do any kind of multiplication or anything like that
Yeah, it was a simple time wasn't it it was no kids and their screens sort of terrible stuff are they doing?
typing in boobs upside down
Yeah, they're slogans are amazing the buttons nothing till the brains trained and
They chanted calculators later we shall not be moved calculators later is good
There was and they interviewed them in the newspaper
I was reading they interviewed the leader John Saxon who organized this whole thing and they said well mr. Saxon
Why are there no teachers? You know I've only got 15 people and he said teachers don't like to demonstrate because they are shy
Fair enough, I guess a mental arithmetic is is an important thing. I read something about you Susie
I want to know if this is something you still do but according to an interview you gave every single morning you do your
75 times table
I think I was being a little bit whimsical
No, it's because
Very very long time if 75 came up on the countdown board
Yeah, I just gave up because I can't do five 75s
I have to write it down. I don't know what it is and the more I
Struggled with it the worse it got because I became fixated on it. So that was probably where it came from
I don't know why it's stupid. No, it's not your job to get there to get the numbers though
Is it like you can just let Rachel do all that stuff?
Yeah, no, I really do try and she's very good at giving three hundred and seventy-five
Yeah, thank you. Well done. Yeah, well you can't see at home is that he's got a calculator
Yeah, and that we've edited this that took him 15 minutes to the guy who listens to it slow down is not gonna get to it for half an hour
But I love all those old calculating methods because calculators from calculus little pebble because they counter with stones
And then they had abacuses didn't they it is a political hot potato though
Well, yeah, so for example
Does it harm whether you can do mental arithmetic if you use a calculator all the time in your opinion? Yes, probably
Okay. Well, you're you're in good company because in 2011
There was a British MP who led consulate public concerns on this and said I would describe this country as in love with the calculator
From a very early age and so that too easy access to calculators is available in local schools
Oh, that MP Liz truss
Command of like large numbers
So Susie you're a great lovely lovely
that reminds me of the petition to
get rid of all French words from the British passport and
It went online. We got quite a few signatures without realising that passport is French
Hiding to nothing I think
Human calculators are amazing people who can do incredible
head so
There was I was reading an interview with the 2020 world champion who is an Indian guy. He's called Neelacanthabhanu Prakash and
He got to it quite interesting way
He was confined to bed as a child for a year and loads of people who are amazing at mental maths have either
Been confined to bed or they've been in solitary confinement or something's happened where they've lived in their imagination for a long time
So all the way through school
He would spend six to seven hours a day practicing mental arithmetic just doing that
When he was interviewed by the BBC throughout the interview he recited his 48 times table and
When he's talking to someone he will count how many times they blink just to keep himself engaged in the conversation
Yeah, that's amazing. They're cool. Yeah, there's been loads of them over there
In fact, one of the things that you have to do if Guinness wants to find out if you're the fastest at working things out is
They'll give you a 100 digit number and ask you to work out the 13th route
So the square route is two things that you times together to get to that number
So imagine then a cube route is three things you multiply together to get to that number
You have to go all the way down to 13. So it might be 37 times 37 times 37 times 37 times 13 times
The answer to the power of 13 is the number they give you in the first place. That's right the question
I'll be honest. I don't think you're gonna trouble the Guinness
Let's put me into a sort of defensive crouch position. Okay, so 30 through I was yeah
And I was reading about a guy called them claim who was the record holder
This was in the 80s about he's must be still quite close
He managed to do it in one minute 28 seconds
But his tactic was to mutter in Dutch while he was doing the calculations and he would only mutter swear words
So imagine I'm just she'd be like fucking out. I fuck
263 and it would be right every single time there is there's so much science behind
Swearing lowering your cortisol levels and raising your serotonin levels
And you know that experiment when you dip your arm in ice-cold water
Yes, I've been twice as long if you're shouting bollocks and if you're shouting bus
So and there's what Lalo Kezier is exactly it. So that's what he was doing. Wow, so it works. Yeah. Yeah, okay
Would it help doing this podcast if I just said bollocks all the way through?
Because that's what Dan's been doing for the last 10 years
You and say that if we lived in the time of Samuel Johnson, right?
Here's the thing you have to do at the mental calculation World Cup just another example of what so the calendar
There's the calendar round. This is an exciting round
You get given a list of dates from
1600 to
2100 the years yeah, and you've given 60 seconds to name the day of the week that every one of those dates
Huh happened on oh, okay, so you get it right you get a minute to do it, okay? Yeah, and this great long list of
Days like 24th of February. Yeah, great 1603 Monday, right?
You're gonna say Monday to all of them, aren't you? Have you got the answers? No
It's funny, I can't disprove that it was a Monday, but the point might oh my god, that's so like
He may have got it right. That's true. But what I'm saying is next question
There are people who can do it even more effectively than just randomly guessing
Incredibly rapidly so the record the record winner in 2012 was someone called Nafumi. Oh, Gasawara. Okay. They got
57 in a minute. Wow. Well, they are they weren't all Monday though. Were they they were all Monday?
Trick that yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that is amazing
Unless Monday Thursday Tuesday Saturday, I think there are tricks out there are really I've met someone who can do that
It takes them a tiny bit longer obviously, but we're talking about a champion here
Yeah, but you can say any day and they go over that and they work it out
There are tricks you can mark her history in certain ways to get you to that day. What well like what I don't know
Like a civil war broke out on a Wednesday
Three and a half years earlier who knows yeah
But there was when they used to be people who would go on stage and you would ask them to multiply two numbers together
And they just be able to do it and that would be the whole act pretty good
It's pretty cool. It's not verifiable for everyone in the crowd as well. That's true
But that's good
But that's because if you've got someone on stage who's doing the SM while they do it
Yeah, but they would be able to be up there will be able to do it much quicker than that for sure
But so you're right would be quite unverifiable
But the tricks that they used to use basically there's loads of math tricks like you would see on countdown
It's like your nine times table is one way of doing it or removing things or adding things to a hundred all these different tricks
They have but the way that they would mostly do it is someone would ask you to
Multiply this by this and then you would go okay
What were they again and you keep stalling a few times
But you're already doing it in your head and then that you would multiply all the numbers and if I multiply two numbers
I would always start from the digits and work my way up to the highest number
But they would always start with the highest number. They might say
17 million and they're working out the next ones as they go along, but they haven't even got there yet
Wow, so they would be able to say like I can answer the question immediately
But actually they're kind of working out as they went along amazing. That's pretty clever, isn't it? Yeah
I once got brought up to the front of my school
When I was a teenager in high school and told on the spot Daniel has achieved the top
Percentage of people in New South Wales, Australia for mathematics in the recent exam that we took as part of thing and it was a multiple choice exam
I
Literally guessed every single answer because I knew nothing about mathematics and I just happened through fluke to get it
Right, I still have a certificate at home for being one of the
Greatest mathematicians in New South Wales of my period
Well, they did they sort of say well, this is great because we've been wanting to put some
Come on Daniel get your big old award. I was like I was an idiot. They
Know it was it was humiliating
Still got the certificate
Yeah, it is fascinating watching Countdown and I know that you're saying that you you like to do it as well
But watching Rachel be able to get to those sums is just feel like magic doesn't it?
Yeah, it really does. Yeah, the camera crew who've been with us for such a long time as well
They're also very nerdy
So they give nods of approval for two things one is when I ever mention an orphaned negative
Which is when you have things like really grunt old shoveled well shovel doesn't exist, but
Ruthful gawm full stuff like that whenever I mention often negative they go and whenever Rachel says yes, that's the sum of two primes
Sure
Do the camera men like play along with the game do you think I think they do yeah, I think a lot of camera women as well
But they're all brilliant and
I wasn't ticking you off
But yeah, I reckon they do
Quite a lot of them get the conundrum not the women though
I
Got a quick protest thing another protest
We have so many camera women it would be really bad me not to mention them, but I honestly wasn't having a dig
They're called cinematographers James
I
So the thing I want to mention about protest is one of my favorite things I've learned recently in 1966 the
procrastinators Club of America held a protest against the War of 1812
And
They made signs and everything they were protesting it and
The the club newsletter that came out after it announced that the protest had in fact been a success because a treaty has now been signed
So good on them
Okay, it is time for fact number three and that is Andy
My fact is that for 30 years Tibetan Buddhists have been saving fish from certain death and releasing them back into nature
Unfortunately, it turns out they have unwittingly been feeding them all straight to the local otters
So there's this ritual called fangshengs very it's very, you know ancient traditional thing you do
It's called like life release is what it means you you get animals that were destined for slaughter and
And you sort of you you free them and you use your way of like paying a debt back to the universe
It's that kind of thing and since the 1990s there are lots of Buddhists in Tibet have been buying up fish from fish markets at live
ones and
Releasing them into local rivers thousands of them every year and unfortunately
There's a recent scientific report which has looked at the the state of the nearby rivers because I mean
It's not a great thing to do in terms of ecology, you know lots of that's a really invasive species risk
And it'll completely like mess up the local ecosystem
Anyway, turns out that there are almost no fish left in the rivers and the otter feces are
Full of the fish that have been released
So they have been kind of helping nature in a way in that they've like a lot of very very fat happy otters
On this river. Yeah, but the otters are stopping the the non-native fish from destroying the ecosystem
So in many ways, it's a happy story, but not for them if they realized what they'd been doing, right?
No, no, no, not for the fish that get released confused and immediately and no karma for the Buddhists
Or what do you reckon of my pay grade?
There's a German word for this which is I don't wonder if you've heard it Susie is
Verschlimbe so wrong. Yeah, the definition. It's an attempted improvement that makes things worse. Yeah
If you just knew that I mean, I did see you peek at my notes here
But yeah, now there's this whole industry isn't there of people
Capturing animals so that they can then be released. Yeah
I think and obviously is quite bad in lots of places and they looked in
Singapore and in Southeast Asia and they're just finding all of these lizards and stuff which shouldn't be there and yet
They are and so the Singapore Buddhist Federation is saying that maybe you should just maybe just not eat meat instead
I'd give some money to animal shelters just anything other than doing this thing, which is inherently quite bad
It's like it does it's a slightly mess things up, but there is something to be said about if you go to a restaurant
I speak as a veggie here, but go to a restaurant and you see a tank full of lobsters
I mean, that's just I would do anything to rescue those things. Yeah, I would go and dump them in the local loch. Yeah
I can see why I can see why I definitely understand it
Yeah, for sure you get in Shanghai what happens is that again when it whether the people turn up to carry out the fang sheng ritual a
Lot of people turn up
Selling them live turtles at very inflated prices. So already like they've created a secondary market in
Turtles at this point, but then there are also fishermen waiting down. Sorry fish a folk
Anglers
Waiting with nets but literally 20 meters away. So yeah, yeah, yeah, it creates a lot of it's an interesting from an economics point of view
Yeah, but also like the temple ponds tend to be full of turtles because people just shove loads and loads of them in and obviously you
Can only have so many turtles living in a pond before they have a bad time of it. Yeah, so these fish were carp, weren't they?
Yes, they were in yeah, why do you know?
I was just sitting in there that I was thinking why do we carp on about something when that's got anything to do with the fish?
Oh, I know that is from a Latin where meaning to pull two pieces likewise carpet is sort of like tufts that you kind of pull
But I don't think I think she would fish. What about do we say that car park? I thought it's hop on you can hop on as well
So what's harping on versus?
Endlessly playing the same note on a heart and to carp on is to criticize and just kind of constantly have a go stop
Carping you know that kind of thing. Yeah, yeah, I think she was a fish. I've got a question. Yes
Is carp pulling something apart related to carpal tunnel syndrome?
Condition oh, that's interesting. Yeah, maybe I don't know is the answer. That's a very good one
I think it's related
My favorite fish is the cod. Oh, yeah because cod meant scrotum and the fish is supposed to look sorry. Sorry James
What a bit of your beer? I'll have the haddock. Yeah
It's because it looks like a bag apparently the fish. Yeah, and the cod piece piece for you as grotum and
Brackets go back to a Spanish word meaning cod piece because they're a bit of support
So architectural brackets, but also they kind of support a bit of your sentence
Well, it's not that lovely Andy
If you heard the start of this great, well, I know it's great
But that's not I think that's nice that you think if you're scrotum as a sort of set of brackets. Yes gently supporting
the things that need
With words otherwise, isn't it cod piece? Yeah
What if you cod to someone because the cod is a practical joke as well, isn't it?
I'm kidding, but I'm not I'm cutting. Yeah, I'm cutting. I wonder if that's got anything to do with you talking balls or something
I didn't know
I've never heard of carping I've never heard of cutting I've never heard of cutting either. No, yeah to cod to cause one
I think I might be Irish. I'm not sure and Cods wallet this can be different
We're learning a lot
Do you know Gary Larson the far side? Yeah, the comic books
He he was someone who was also into saving animals and and sort of playing around
So when he was a when he was a cartoonist in his early days, he was being paid
But it wasn't a lot of money so he needed to get a secondary job
So he applied to be an animal cruelty investigator for the Seattle Humane Society
But he never ended up doing the job because in the car on the way to the interview. He hit a dog and so
He thought that's a bad start
The dog was fine, but he didn't end up doing it as a result. Yeah, I was reading a bit about
Reintroductions, you know, because this is about reintroducing animal. Maybe where it should be. Maybe it shouldn't and you know, like Britain is
is
kicking off beaver
Reintroductions, which is very exciting because they they beavers are a bit controversial
Basically, they do do a lot of good in a lot of places
They create wetlands and wetlands store carbon and they're more resistant to fire and you know, they're very in danger
Like the wetlands themselves were endangered beavers help bring them back
So this year North London got two beavers called Sigourney beaver and Justin beaver
Did we literally only get to because they were the only puns
Sort of coming back, but anyway, like I say it has caused some controversy
So there was a headline from the Daily Mail earlier this year could rewilding animals turn Britain into a modern-day Jurassic Park
With beavers what firstly exactly yeah beavers and secondly Jurassic Park is set in the modern day
Sloppy headline writing
And there's a problem in America, you know when if you go to the coast often
There are baby turtles that are born and you might wander into the city because they see the lights
Yeah
You often get people going to the beach and they see these turtles and put them in
Into the water, but the problem is that in those areas especially around Florida
There's also a lot of tortoises around there and people don't know the difference between turtles and tortoises
One difference being that one could swim and one can't swim
So number one don't go around grabbing turtles anyway, because you know there are people who'll do it who know what they're doing
Yeah, but secondly tortoises have toes. Oh, that's that's the way to tell. Oh, that's good public service
Let's call them totals. Oh, yeah, that'll do it
Don't touch that it's a total
It's hard to say
That's probably why it didn't happen
Red kites near me they're red kites. They've really done well with yeah. Yeah, and the kite that we play with is from the bird
Yeah, they're beautiful. They're gorgeous. Yeah, they've done they've done amazingly everywhere wild cats might get new wild cats
Devon and Cornwall this is exciting right and you don't need permission to introduce them because there are already a few in
Scotland so if something is if something is non-existent in the UK like a wolf then you need permission from the environment secretary and very
Boringly they are not
Allowing us to have wolves everywhere
So why would you and I just drive up to Scotland grab a few wildcats drive down and just set them free
It doesn't sound like it's loud it would be a lot would it
Feel like a hell of a car ride
The thing is we both have electric cars as well, so we have to stop about five times
I don't know if it would and I'm sorry to rain on your parade James
But the problem is the wildcats in Scotland they get described as functionally extinct so this is weird
They're real they exist, but they're also extinct because
They there are a few hundred of them left only and basically they spend all their time shagging domestic cats
To the extent that the gene pool is just completely
Like scientists have studied lots and lots of dead cats from about the last hundred years
And they found that you need a particular kind like wildcats are quite a specific thing
But they're they're Randy and they will just
Wildcat are they really vicious wildcats or they just quite cute a bit of a bit of a loaded way of describing them
They're just I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I see they are. Yeah, they're not they're not massive either
That's sort of two cats and the size of two cats. I would say okay roughly a cat and a half two cats
No, no, I think they very rarely take a human young
But I mean domestic cats are quite vicious and they they kill a lot of birds and stuff
Wildcats are quite similar. I just think it must be a pretty exciting day if you're just a normal domestic cat
Wildcat comes in town. Ah wild. It'd be like John Travolta and Olivia Newton John, wouldn't it?
It would just be like the leather-bound dude walking in it must be like if a yeti was to approach you and have sex with you Dan
Because it's bigger it's hairier. It's like it's a little slightly different species, but still recognisably humanoid. Yeah, and it's on
My wife and I have an agreement
Completely monogamous. She's got a list of celebs. Yeah, she's got yeti and Brian blessed. Those are the two
That make it in
It is time for our final fact of the show and that is my fact my fact this week is
Mathematician David Cox has two things named after him a
Geometric coordinate ring and an algorithm that he invented with Steven Zucker
They are known as the Cox ring and the cocksucker machine
So
What's particularly exciting about this is that in the 1970s Cox and Zucker met each other and went oh, we've got to write a paper
The invention came after the juvenile
Dream of having a cocksucker paper
So then the these things that coordinate rings and algorithms as the greatest mathematician New South Wales has ever produced
Explained that's what they are
Yes, I would James because I have a maths degree and I fucking can't yeah, is it complicated. I really tried
I really tried to understand it when I say really tried I just knew I was going to throw it to James and if he can't
I feel fine and it's yeah
No, it is it is really really complicated the second thing that he invented was not an invention
It was attributed to him by two other students because he was the inspiration for it
So the cocks ring was inspired by his earlier work and they thought let's play into the gag here
But they came up with it and then they named it yeah, and it's just this wonderful thing about academics having a sense of humor
This is something this is interesting
There's a thing called Stigler's law of eponymy right and what it states is that no
Scientific discovery is actually named after the person who discovered it in the first place. So like Pythagoras's theorem
Named after Pythagoras not discovered by him
Halley didn't discover Halley's comet been known about a bit earlier
And so this is the Stigler law of economy and it was coined by a sociologist who was called Robert Merton
Who named after someone else yeah, and these these two guys when they did this by the way
They were studying at Princeton University
So the reason I came across this fact is because I found out that you studied at Princeton University
You studied German there. I know I'm weird. No, that's that's very cool
Did you mean was it a good degree or was it ever slim?
No, it was
No, it's brilliant. I mean German is just so it just gets given such a hard wrap in it is honestly the most lyrical
Beautiful, we're just used to people shouting orders in more films
But it's really really beautiful, but they people always say why isn't there a word for this in English?
and then they will always say well, I bet there's one in German and
And usually is because it is quite like Lego, isn't it? You can just pile
Do you ever have been shot on your no love - he wrote this brilliant book called shot and Freud, which?
Was it basically finding as many gaps in English as he could find and then getting a German translator to
Make up a word and my favorite one was
Depenfarer beoigung, which is the compulsion to stare at the person you're overtaking in your car
That's really good. Yeah, well, that was that was him. It's very good. These people cocks and zucker
I was looking at some other people with similar kind of names that what we call that double barrel names
Yeah, if you go on the internet you can find loads of
Examples of people who got married and had quite unfortunate names
I'm not sure all of them are true
But I have looked at them all in the newspaper archives and found some that are definitely are true
And I'm gonna do a little quiz see if you can I'm gonna tell you the name of one of the people in this relationship
And you can see if you can guess the name of the person they married
This is an easy one Elizabeth McDonald and John had a farm
I
Know
You can get this Elizabeth McDonald married and double barrel the names take away
They didn't necessarily always double barrel, but when you have the newspaper things it says this person married this person
They call it the McDonald burger wedding
So, okay, I can pull this back. You've got it right you can do this andy
Amy wide wide wide OH YDE Stephen Fanny
Sorry birth birth is good, but that would be great. You were closest. It was Alexander whole
Amy and Alexander white hole
Joe Looney, so what Looney Looney, Judy, Judy
Ben Ben, no, she's close
Isn't quite a normal surname Matthew tick Looney tick Looney take very good Shelby Ward
Looney what one final one Teresa come on
Michael England
Tim Michael Tim
Arnold my back
Down down down
Mr. David I lead
Anyone in the audience no it was Teresa come on and Frankie top of me
Oh
And I should also say that I was reading the reddit of Jill Stein, you know the Green Party leader in America
Yeah, and she did an AMA so it was like ask her anything and the second most popular question
They asked Jill Stein was Dr. Stein. Have you ever thought about marrying Senator Al Franken and hyphenating your last name?
Oh
Very good, so good. Um, there's only one street in the world named after John Major and
He didn't know it was named after him and no one told him they were naming it after him
Oh, it was going to be Sir John Major close sounds menacing
But it's
But it's gonna be called Sir John Major close, but then the London Fire Brigade said that's a bit complicated
We might get confused if someone rings up and so they just called it major close. There's cut out the sir job
And then when when he was asked about it
He said I think it's most unlikely they'd name a street after me and he just hadn't been told no one informed him
Margaret that has loads of stuff that Margaret that has a peninsula named after her
anyway
That's quite interesting because in Europe for every ten streets that are named after a man
Yeah, there's only one named after a woman is much more likely that you would be named after a man if you're a woman is it?
Well
Interestingly, okay taking that in mind the most popular person in European streets names is a woman
No, Andy's right it is the Virgin Mary in Europe of course, so lots of
Does actually have virgin in the names or is it? No, it's usually just Mary
Yeah, and it's usually named after the church. Yeah, yeah goes to so yeah
Well Santa Maria Santa Maria, which I would argue is named after Santa and
So we should lob those off her numbers
Audrey is another religious one that is an eponym because tawdry comes, you know, something's tawdry
It's really shoddy and that goes back to st. Audrey that she was
An abyss and eventually a saint and she wore lots of kind of necklace
In her youth and then as a nun she got a throat cancer and she thought this was revenge
Because she would just wear such fripply
Wow, anyway lace such as the one that she wore around her neck was sold at fairs and it was st. Audrey lace
Oh, that's brilliant tawdry lace. Yeah. What was it about being 55 minutes into this show that make you think of the word tawdry?
It's the religious the religious side of it. Yeah, you know the Chippendales the dance troupe. Yeah
Oh, yeah, they're named after the the the oven and yeah
Oh, no, I was thinking of a Thomas Chippendale the person who made all the furniture. Oh, thank you the children's cut
That one, you know
They were named after the furniture in the club where they performed
It designed to look like
Thomas Chippendale furniture because they were kind of, you know, like muscular I guess they were sort of muscular and you know
Impressive looking so with the chairs. Oh, I think they do sit on stage and the you sit on their laps, right?
Surely not. I think so. They become the chairs. I think so. That's what I'm saying. They are
Oh, don't pretend. Oh, I think
This is from the man who suggested coming my back a few minutes ago
And I was looking into just a scientist who have humor
I like it when it makes it into a paper and I just found a couple of papers. They've been published
I really like the titles of so a couple of them here
They are the mouth the anus and the blaster poor open questions about questionable openings
Another paper the effects of having Christmas dinner with in-laws on gut microbiota composition
And then the third one head and neck injury risks in heavy metal headbangers stuck between rock and a hard base
Oh
I'm gonna have to wrap us up. So guys, we've got to the end. I was just looking at very unintentionally unintentional
Because this is about something where it was intentionally very rude. Yeah, I was trying to find examples of things were unintentionally rude
Okay, I'm just like a couple of very tiny quick ones. So yolo williams welsh naturalist
Okay, it was co-presenter on spring watch in 2016. He was discussing diving seabirds with a female conservationist
And they watched one plunge into the water in front of them and he just turned her and said so
Is that the deepest jag you've ever had?
And she got to say no we have had tea for them that
And we've I feel like we should end with
Like I think some of you will have heard this before I know the all-time classic harry carpenter after the boat race
1977 was reporting it live on tv and said, ah, isn't that nice the wife of the cambridge president is kissing the cox of the oxford crew
Can I just do one more I know that's really good, but
In 2012 fiza the drug company came up with a new drug for osteoarthritis in dogs called rimadil
And I went on to the newspaper archives for the adverts for this. This is genuinely true
There was an advert that said fiza animal health the manufacturers of rimadil have launched a program available only through veterinary hospitals
Register online at rimadog.com
Okay, that is it that is all of our facts. Thank you so much for listening
If you would like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we have said on this show
We can be found or what are the fuck he's decided to call it this week, uh, but for now i'm calling it twitter
I'm on at striberland james at james harkin andy at andrew hunter and and susie at susie under school then
Yeah, or you can go to our group account, which is at no such thing or you can go to our website
No such thing as a fish dot com all of our previous episodes are up there
You can also find links to club fish, which is the secret members club any club fish members in the crowd tonight
There we go. There's the six of them and uh
So do join that. It's really really fun. Check out all the merch check out everything else
We'll be back again next week with another episode so ho theater. Thank you so much. That was awesome
So thank you to susie dent and we'll see you again next time
Goodbye
You
(upbeat music)